It's the first simple example
of the write retrieval model.
Let's consider scoring with
the Jaccard coefficient.
So the Jaccard coefficient is
a commonly used measure for
the overlap between two sets a and b.
And what it is, is simply you take the
number of items in the section of a and
b and you divide it by the number
of items in the union of a and b.
And so if we take the Jaccard coefficient
of a set with itself, then the set has
some size, and then that size will be
also the size of the intersection,
the union, and so the ratio will be 1 and
the Jaccard coefficient is 1.
If two sets are disjoint and have no
members in common, and the numerator of
the Jaccard coefficient would be zero,
and so the Jaccard coefficient is zero.
Now, the two sets don't have to be the
same size, but you should be able to see
the Jaccard coefficient will always
assign a number between zero and one,
because at most the intersection
can be as large as the union.
So suppose we decide to make the query
document match score the Jaccard
coefficient computed for the sets
of words the two documents contain?
So the idea is that let's suppose
our query is ides of march,
which has these three words, and
then we have these two documents.
So what we can do is say so
there are three different words here.
And then for Document 1,
Caesar doesn't occur in it,
die doesn't occur in it, in doesn't
occur in it, march does occur in it.
So the size of the intersection
Is just one word and
the total number of words is 6.
If we then do the second document,
well, the doesn't occur in the query.
Long doesn't occur in the query.
But again march does occur in the query.
So this time the Jaccard
coefficient of d1,
d2, is going to be one divided
by the number of words,
which is this time five.
Okay, and so this document is going to
win as having the higher Jaccard score.
Now of course that difference
may not seem very significant.
Essentially this document is
winning here because it's shorter.
But if we imagined a different example,
where we maybe had the word
ides in the second document.
And we'd get that
the Jaccard coefficient for
it is now two overlapping words
over six and that maybe makes
more sense to you that you're getting more
overlaps if the Jaccard score is higher.
But this idea that all else being equal,
a shorter document should be preferred,
is a common one that we'll
see again in IR models.
Okay.
So, it Jaccard scoring a good idea for
a retrieval model?
In general, it's not felt to be.
It has a couple of issues.
One is that is doesn't
consider term frequency.
It just uses the set of
words in a document and
ignores how many times
the words occur in a document.
But that's typically not
all the information we want
and we'll look at models in a minute
that do deal with term frequency.
There's also a second finer point which is
that rare terms in a collection are more
informative than frequent
terms when evaluating a query.
And that's something that we'll also
want to factor into our models.
There's one other aspect in which
the Jaccard coefficient turns out
not to work very well, and that is
the way in which it does normalization by
dividing through by the union
isn't necessarily quite right.
I mean in particular,
later on in these segments we'll
introduce the idea of
using cosine similarity.
And we'll go through the math of that for
the more general case.
And if after you've seen that you
want to kind of come back to this and
work out what the cosine
similarity score is,
if you just have a one zero bag of
words and work out a cosine score.
It'll turn out that it's this,
which is like the Jaccard coefficient,
except that we've got this slight
difference in the denominator that we're
now taking the square root of the union.
And that actually turns out to be
a better form of length normalization.
Okay, so I introduced the Jaccard
coefficient as a very simple
ranked retrieval model, but
I hope it was also a way
to show some of the issues that we need
to deal with in a good retrieval model.
How to factor in the frequency of terms,
the rareness of words.
And how to normalize the score for
different document lengths.